welcome everyone to this week's IP of
the sync meeting it's April 1st 2019
and first of all we need note taker
any volunteers thanks rod and anyone
else please put your name on the crew
pet on the attendees list and and we can
get started so yeah there's not that
much agenda but let's start with the
two-week update my update is pretty
short it's in the meeting minutes and
there's plenty of links but what I
basically did is finally the new jeaious
IP AP j SI p LD api is merged and
released and then afterwards we had a
lot of discussions about the JavaScript
API that's still ongoing and yeah it's
it's basically the generation after the
current one and we'll see how this goes
and just follow the links over there
and for the next three weeks I will
probably work on the format's IP LD
format stuff again to basically do the
implementation the excellent imitation
foreign draft we have so that the
consumers like to mix FS can finally use
the sync away the API annex was
basically asking for it when it is
finally done and hopefully yeah we have
this soon um that's all I have next my
list is Michael hey so I have a couple
items that are like things to update on
and then a few things that we'll have a
discussion of that so all I'll push some
of the discussion off until later but
just mention it real quick one is that
the big thing is like University to
draft has been updated to the latest
spec it doesn't you'd still see more
only and kind of assuming stibor until
the next rep of the IPO the interfaces
finishes it's going to be a little bit
too hard to update it to just be really
agnostic but right now it does work it
is like path agnostic and all that stuff
and it has almost complete code coverage
now just a few more lines to really do
so the docs are up for the summit in
Berlin I sent them out in the slack room
but if you haven't gotten those let me
know and I'll make sure that you are
added to them or given a link or
whatever you need but they there's three
of them the details sort of like the
first two days and then the last two
days of our time in Berlin the last two
days we're going to open up a bit more
and sort of invite more people in so
that's why there's separate documents we
could invite people to those dogs
whenever the discussion later about dag
JSON and a few decisions that I think we
need to make because they impact this
like inline-block stuff wanted to talk a
little bit about and also talk about
this identity multi hash thing that I
did not know existed and I didn't know
if anybody else knew existed but we need
to be considering that just that
apparently is a thing that I had no idea
about and that's it Eric I'm using
cassia's in my test cases because
they're really helpful yeah well yeah I
think like they are really useful once I
realized they existed the issue is it
like all of our Traverse errs sort of
assumed that if CID is a reference to
something that you pull out of the box
or not that like the CID would just have
the data in it as part of the
multi-touch so I think like we we may
need to be considering that yeah thought
about that so in the traversal packages
in the glove the prime stuff and some of
that is now a go the traversal dot focus
if you will a function which takes a
note and a path and gives you some
callback which acts on you note this
function is now implemented completely
and works and is agnostic to any links
in the middle of that path so that's
really cool that allows us to do some
stuff that I think has kind of never
been supported before it doesn't let you
mutate things the middle of the path
that would require a little more blue
coat that ask me happened right but it
lets you like you show up into anything
do something which is AB you only sort
of operation and that's really cool them
that has test cases now and that has
sort of proven out a whole bunch about
their code and I do D prime which is
basically not been tested before
so more finely grained tests for a bunch
of this stuff would be very welcome but
some very high level integration tests
are now like working so that's what's
the significance of sorry what's the
significance of the word focus in this
stuff it's a word I made up it means
that we are so given some node and given
some path or a path
like a series of path segments each of
them being one specific jump that you
might make so I could got a map and
you've got a key index immediately
that's more passing list we've got one
integer index in increments path
segments and so on
you've given one node who only paths
with hops like that you can get to
another node so you can give me a note
and a path and a callback and I will
call a callback with that map so it sort
of lets you do that sort of read-only
inspectional on some graph in a very
generic way so we want to do next is
then take that sort of very specific
implementation right and now do it for
very generic things like so so traversal
that focuses like the equivalent of
doing tap complete in bash or lunch and
then getting the end of something then
pressing enter and we want to have now
movie so to select your implementations
where we have a limit of like dot slash
star in bash and then something happens
or dot slash star star and like that's a
fair bit trickier but it would be nice
if we did that so now I'm so now I'm at
home trying to make traversal dot
traverse or something like that do the
right thing and so it's really nice to
have the the focus implementation there
so it shows what the depth of complexity
is that we will get to and jump into and
specific could have in the tree and now
I'm trying to make that stuff work for
selectors in general for like a whole
and subsection of the trees is really
interesting I've started trying to work
on that this week and it's you maybe
constrain myself saying it's really
interesting yeah it's really interesting
so for example I've started to look at
the bash code that does the nearest
equivalent to some of the most general
things that we've wanted to ask from
this social system and I'm not sure if
if anyone else the room is familiar so
in so mash it can be like doc slash star
and it'll match one thing where the star
is and then a feature which often
converts people to Z SH for example but
also exists in bash is called Club star
so it's u dot slash star star and then
match and that will work recursively and
that's kind of interesting feature
because if you use it by itself it's
fairly obvious what it does and if you
use it with other blobs or other pattern
matches in the same command becomes
really interesting so I started working
on on traversals and selectors this week
that tried to do that sort of thing and
I got a return carpet territory I don't
know I'll try to write a better record
of this later basically as a whole bunch
of things where if you want to transmit
the merkel proof for this thing then
you're going to want to do a pre-order
traversal and if you want to do lob star
or star start reversals them good luck
reconciling that it's about when I
figured out this week cool
and we update from rod yeah so happy
map implementation stuff it's really
it's a really good I guess it's a really
good intro to data structures in IPL
Diaz and it seems to me that they jump
to different kinds of collections isn't
that great once we have basic
collections in place so I've done any
I've done a hampt implementation in
JavaScript it's of a champ variety which
there's a couple floating around of the
variously implement that it's it's a
little bit like the one that's that's in
go at the moment let's go hand obld I
think it's called but that I mean that
doesn't stick to any particular spec and
it's a little bit loose in some areas so
it's it's sort of similar to that but
not quite it's it's a bit more close to
the one in in Ian's pier gusts thing
anyway it's so I've modelled it so it
feels like a JavaScript map but it's
asynchronous and immutable so every
every mutation of our operation creates
a new node that you then need to do
something with so serialize or keep on
mutating and it's working really well I
um
I'm currently bogged down in getting
tests covering weird edge cases in the
compaction so that's you know making
sure that the different forms of trees
when you delete nodes that they compact
up properly there's a bunch of different
ways that they can be formed there are
special cases so and I'm trying to get
test cases that form the trees in those
ways and then compact them in in the
right way just to show that it works and
and in doing that I found some problems
in the in my algorithm so it's going
well it does raise a bunch of
interesting questions though which I I'm
hoping to I'm hoping to get this up in
the next couple of days so that we can
start having these discussions because I
think they're really interesting so
things like what's the final serialized
form of this thing of these data
structures and I know need some help
from you guys who have been serializing
stuffing to see ball more than I have
you know I I just reach for just a naive
sort of serialize realization but it
would be they probably take up more
space than it needs to what's the
optimal branching factor the optimal
bucket size when is in line versus
linked entry storage best what about the
hash algorithm I'm currently I'm
presuming pluggable hash algorithm with
different lengths of of hash bytes and
which side you come from there's a
discussion in in slack about which side
of a hash you take from left or right
and that's actually a kind of a complex
question because it depends on the hash
using but also it's the hash pluggable
and do you know upfront how many bytes
it is and then when you serialize this
thing can you pull it back out and have
the right hash every hour than the right
number of bytes all this sort of stuff
so I've gotten the way I've got it is
there's lots of documentation it even
though it's the the structure is complex
it's heavily documented the tests test
should be should explain a lot better so
hope I'm hoping that those kinds of
discussions are practical when we've got
something to look at that is not too
difficult to grok so that's hopefully in
the next couple days cool thanks for the
update yeah so this more so this anyway
also have an update before we move on to
the deeper discussions
No all right so yeah so only I've put
also Michael stuff on the agenda list
under the agenda in this meeting and
kind of like like what I want to talk
about is this and nested ILD formats on
distant blocks or inline block sort or
either we call them but this basically
overlaps what you likely wants to
discuss so I guess I just hand over to
Michael and and yeah yeah I think like
we sort of have a solution now for the
inline block stuff right you know in a
really fucked-up way which is like just
abuse the identities because like you
you effectively do end up getting but
like we were looking for a way to just
take the format multi codec and then
mash it up into the raw data and that
that's effectively what happens with an
AI with an identity multi hash in CID we
just explain for like like other people
okay so like I was reading the thread I
think it was like in 2015 one was like
you know what sometimes the data that
you're hashing is smaller than a hash so
why don't we just like add a multi codec
for instead of a hash here's just the
data here's the bytes and use that as
the identifier if it's going to end up
being shorter than a multi head or
shorter than the actual hash anyway now
great idea it turns out that like
because there's no limit on the size of
this you could effectively use it at any
point to create multi hashes that just
like have a bunch of binary data with
like a thing that says hey this is
binary data in front of it and then
because C IDs are just like extra
metadata on top like in front of a multi
hash you could do what is effectively an
inline block by just saying oh here's
the CID with an identity multi hash and
all in the bite area and there's no
limit on the size so the thing that that
like because almost an asking for is
effectively accomplished with this
because like you can just keep embedding
them you can even nest them the issue is
that like I don't think that we've
really considered this use case in the
rest of the IPL the ecosystem like when
you're doing traversals and you're doing
resolutions you return a see
if you're trying to in Traverse or
something you don't try to then
interpret it as a block and if you hand
to CID to a block store they try to like
look up that that identifier as a block
there note at this point I don't know of
any that are like going oh no no like
the data is inside of the CID else
caught out so there's like some work to
do I think to support this but it sounds
like that solves the issues if he's
wanted I mean it doesn't solve
parameterize blocks but like however you
design the parameterization metadata for
like the subscribing nature of whatever
that looks like you would just put it on
Seabourn
and then you would just embed it in my
block right yes so like a Christian
would be that I mean it's off the poplin
but is it the solution you want to go
for for having something like a light
box
I mean it's effectively the exact same
thing as we were talking about right
which is taking the codec and mashing it
up against the binary block and then
just embedding the binary data like it's
not really that much different I think
like the only thing that really changes
is that so we there's this thread that I
have it in in Dec JSON about like do we
want to create a format that isn't
actually valid JSON in order to make
binary not suck and like be able to
append binary to the end block and just
have references to it or do we want to
say like no it's better for this like to
just be JSON and if you want to talk to
binary have to link to it because if use
cases like this are going to become
prominent then like you can't really do
them in that JSON effectively because
you're just gonna have like these tiny
little like a ton a little bit of
metadata and then like a giant basics
before like CID that's mostly binary
data like yeah that doesn't really work
so that was my only thought there okay
so some my concern would be if you keep
nesting things it becomes pretty ugly
things so I was just wondering if you
like if like it just as an alternative
idea like it not like freeze thaw
through but to do perhaps want to have
something like you specify
see ad which is like an inline CD and
then you put the binary data somewhere
else so kind of like em making the CD
and the data separate as it is with
blocks
so with Bronx also if the CD you know if
the data and with inline long snosurf
the city somewhere and then you have the
pattern is somewhere else because like I
think this is the same thing if we see
if this big global I mean I mean it
would totally work I'm just wondering if
that's no no but but then then the block
data doesn't actually get encrypted with
the same color soo yeah yeah like like
that's the reason that you need to
inline the data
yeah like you're you yeah you'd
effectively like it would be fine if you
were only worried about the security of
like the graph indexing but if you're
worried about like the security of the
entire block store and not storing
anything in plain text if it's actually
encrypted then you would end up and
storing a bunch of plaintext like blocks
that people thought were getting
interrupted so I guess the like this way
is like this is a way that works and if
it turns out is a better they will find
out I mean hey it's a good way to get
started and see if it works and then if
it doesn't we will just do something
else yeah yeah I like it I'm just
wondering why this is such an ideal
solution as opposed to some other entity
is it simply because it fits within the
current structure and so it's easy to
shoehorn in or is this no no I wouldn't
read that like a special case then then
why not introduce a special case that is
no I mean to my mind like like the ideal
case was actually something very
different and where we ended up going in
this direction is just the fact that
like no we want to be able to have data
from other formats get encrypted along
with other block data like that's that's
the main point so like if I want to link
into a get block and then I want to go
and encrypt the entire structure I
effectively get a bunch of blocks
that are all encrypted right and I don't
lose any of that like linking nature of
IPL B into the get walk and like at
first I kind of hated this and now it
seems like kind of the most elegant
thing in a weird way like well no but
but to be clear like I think that um I
think that this should just be in at
some point it's just going to be encoded
in some kind of minor ever-so okay
the way that I'm imagining this is that
like we take the nesting nature out of
it for a second if you have a block
that's encrypted unless metadata that
says ham encrypted and then it will have
a property like call like data that's
the actual encrypted binary data that
could be a link to a separate raw block
that is binary or it could be inlined
right so that that's like still nice and
everything it's just that that gets
decrypted and then like interpreted as
you know whatever you reference in the
in the encryption data does that make
sense
like I don't think that we should use
these in lancia like if I said if it'll
NC ID was dag C bore and then I gave you
the whole binary but it was encrypted
you would have no way to decrypt it
right it's like like that doesn't really
work so for the purpose of encryption
we're still going to have to have a
field in there that says like what is
the format for the encryption so that
after I decrypt it I know how to
interpret it but then if there's other
data inside of that block that had to be
inlined into the block in order to get
encrypted that's where we're using this
like fancy CIT so we're using this
see id with an identity multinational
connection what is the maybe I'm I'm
also missing some of this like what's
the what's the use case it's like okay I
have like I have a JPEG and I don't
wanna I don't want to just send you the
I don't want to encrypt the JPEG in and
put the encrypted hash in the in the CID
I want to actually just in line the
whole JPEG and send it to you well so a
peg is relatively easy because that's
just still raw binary data I think that
the problem is that like say say I have
a data structure that I want to encrypt
like the whole thing right then and some
of the links in that are to like
etherium blocks and get blocks I need to
encrypt those that's part of the data
structure so what's gonna have to end up
happening is like I'm gonna have to
inline that data somewhere in some other
block it's actually fully gets encrypted
and can be interpreted as part of the
encryption program I'm the main issue is
that like all this metadata that we're
talking about adding has to be added a
layer above the thing that you're
encrypting and so if it's not in the IPL
deep data model like it's in these other
content addressed formats it effectively
has to be inlinable so that we can get
it into something in the data model that
we can then interpret isn't that was
like multi codecs or for yes yeah so the
reason for using a CID with an identity
hash like in order to inline it is so
that you get the multi codec from the
CID I mean as opposed to like this new
structure you're importing right isn't
that I maybe I don't understand what
multi codecs are really supposed to be
for but I guess I thought that you know
you have like whatever like there's like
a multi codec for like this is what I
get
commit looks like and etc so if you
we're really doing had one of these
structures that you wanted to use when
you just call one of those a multi codec
and that's how you would specify what
the internal structure look like so you
have data that's already in a multi
codec like it's a git commit right and I
need to like I have some
about that that I want to encrypt and I
also want to encrypt the block so that I
can send it to somebody even if it's
multiple blocks I consented somebody and
nobody knows what's in right so I need
two things right I need a bunch of
information about the encryption that I
like that I send and the data around it
that'll need to get encrypted and then I
need to have a reference to this block
with with that multi-coated with the get
multi codec in front of it so that we
know how to interpret the block data but
if I make that a separate block then it
won't end up getting encrypted right
because then the hash would match so
what I have to do is I have to like take
them all of the data including the multi
codecs and then put it inside of another
block that I'm actually encrypting that
is like in terms that you can actually
interpret uh so we're talking about
eight right so we're talking about
packaging these within just just a small
shell that has the additional metadata
so I was picturing as these things go
inside anything so you could have you
know a block with a lot of stuff in it
then you just have this hanging on the
side but no it's just like it's just a
boxing mechanism yes yes well and I mean
like the thing is that we are opening a
door here to like potentially like
infinite nesting but like there's
there's a bunch of other reasons why you
don't want to have gigantic blocks so
that's probably okay like if somebody
ends up creating gigantic blocks like
they won't work in a bunch of places so
it's alright there's there's enough
incentive already to reduce block size
I'm looking forward to the ILD bomb this
is the infinitely we're using a bag so
in can't happen
no infinite recursion at least yeah all
right Emma's
anything else because we already have
like hour half an hour is already full I
think I can wouldn't worry about the
deck chasin stuff I guess um yeah I mean
we can put that off probably I think now
that we're kind of running out of time
if anybody has anything about the summit
that they want to bring up that would be
cool
make sure you check out the docs but
yeah like the summit in Berlin we we
need to start ironing out details um did
anybody book any place to stay it
because I'm looking at potentially just
getting like a big place for us all the
crashes yeah there are some and like a
few of them are nice enough that they
have like a space for us to like work
out of for the first few days - oh great
anything else lost times all right and
then I close the meeting and see you all
again in two weeks hopefully then with
the livestream